In this video I'll demonstrate some of the security settings that you can modify for your ESX I hosts.
And so here you can see I've logged into my Vee's for a web client and I'm at the hosts and Klosters
view and I'm going to pick this ESX I host here and go ahead and click on the configure tab and this
is where you're basically going to configure everything for this ESX I host whether it's virtual switches
or storage adapters or security settings.
And so our security settings are primarily listed here under the security profile.
And let's start with the first option here.
The host firewall.
So this firewall is for traffic coming in and out of the host itself or for functions that the host
itself needs to perform.
This is not a firewall that protects your virtual machines.
None of the rules in here are going to be applied to any of your VM.
They're strictly applied to the VM kernel ports of the ESX I host itself.
And so let's take a look let's edit this firewall and I'm going to modify a rule for S-sh And so here
we see our S-sh server.
So the ESX host isn't as as a server meaning I can launch PADI or some other similar program and connect
to a command line interface on this ESX I host.
I may want to take that traffic and limit it to a certain range of IP addresses like let's say my management
network has 1 9 2 1 6 8 dot 10 dot 0 slash 24.
Now what I can do is I can take that S-sh port and I can limit it to the addresses that I know should
specifically be able to connect to it.
Right.
And I can do the same thing for a traffic like DHC P or DNS traffic.
Here's our DHP client Here's wake on LAN.
Here is DNS a.p and so on and so forth.
So if there are certain types of traffic that you know should be limited to certain IP addresses such
as DNS for example and you want to go ahead and modify this host firewall to limit the attack surface
as much as you possibly can by restricting that traffic to the appropriate IP address ranges.
And by the way if you end up doing host profiles all of these firewall settings are captured in a host
profile so that can be a great way to standardize all of these firewall settings across a large number
of ESX hosts.
And that way you don't have to configure this every time you set up a new ESX host.
Also on the host we can configure services.
So let's click at 8 here and what we're basically doing is stopping and starting services.
So if we look at S-sh right now the services stopped and I have it configured to start and stop manually.
So if I want to I can manually start the S-sh service and now it's running.
But the best practice is actually to leave S-sh stopped.
But I'm just enabling it now to demonstrate the process.
And if I want to I could also say start and stop with host that way any time this host is booted up
the S-sh service will be started automatically.
And there's a number of other services here.
So what we want to do is consider what services are we actually using and stop any services that we
don't actually need running to limit the attack surface the third setting that I want to show you on
the screen is called lockdown mode and lockdown mode is used to basically restrict how an ESX host can
be communicated with.
So if I hit it here on the lockdown mode screen I can choose from three modes right by default lockdown
mode is disabled.
If I choose normal lockdown mode what that means is that this host will only be accessible through the
local DC Why that local console or through the center which means I will no longer be able to launch
party and connect to it via S-sh.
I will no longer be able to launch the host client and connect to it directly with that.
The purpose of normal lockdown mode is to force all of the management traffic to come through the center.
But if something goes wrong and Visa enters unable to connect to my host then I can always go to the
local console and connect to it there and turn off lockdown mode if I need to.
With strict lockdown mode this is by far the most restrictive option and you'll see it will warn you
here it'll say the direct console user interface service is stopped meaning if I choose strict lockdown
mode the only way I can connect to that host is through the center.
That's it.
If the center fails and I can't get it back up I'm going to have to re-image this host because the only
way that this host can be accessed is through the center.
And that's it.
So strict is very very strict.
Right.
And so in most cases we'll probably go with disabled or normal.
I'm going to go ahead and disable this and hit OK here.
So that's lockdown mode.
And the last thing I want to show you here is under authentication services we can join our ESX I host
to a domain.
So I'm going to join this host to the lab that local domain.
This is an active directory domain.
My user name is going to be administrator and he any active directory domain that Ben will work here.
I'll put in my password and hit OK.
And now issue will the join this ESX host to the domain.
And here you can see we've successfully joined the lab at local domain.
The purpose of this is really I don't want to share our root credentials.
So if we have our ESX I hope that is not a member of any domain.
You can still create some local users inside that ESX I host.
But most people tend not to do that.
And what you see a lot of in the real world is people sharing those root credentials for the ESX host.
So rather than checking out those credentials we'll go ahead and join our host to a domain and that
way we can allow people to authenticate to this ESX host using their actual active directory domain
credentials.